README.md, before:

# Microsoft Movie Insights

Author: [Ilyas Suleman Bourzat](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ilyas-bourzat-894353260/)

## Overview
This project aims to provide strategic insights to Microsoft's new movie studio through an in-depth Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA). We will be examining variuos datasets from [IMDB](https://www.imdb.com/), [Box Office Mojo](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/), [The Movie Db](https://www.themoviedb.org/) and [The Numbers](https://the-numbers.com/) - we'll be trying to identify Box Office trends and impactful movie performance metrics. This analysis will mainly be focused on what type of films are highly successful and in turn translating these findigs into actionable recommendations for Microsoft's film production strategy.

## Business Problem 
Microsoft is planning to enter the movie industry by establishing a new movie studio. However, the movie industry is highly competitive and involves significant financial risks. To ensure the success of its new venture, Microsoft needs to make data-driven decisions regarding which types of movies to produce, when to release them, and how to allocate budgets effectively. The primary business problem is to identify the factors that contribute to a movie's commercial success and use these insights to guide strategic decisions, thereby maximizing the chances of producing successful movies and achieving a strong return on investment.

## Steps
1. **Business Understanding:** Understanding the stakeholders problem and goal they want to achieve.
2. **Data Understanding:** Gathered information about the data to understand it better.
3. **Data Preparation:** Processed and cleaned the data to ensure accuracy.
4. **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA):** Conducted EDA to uncover trends and patterns.
5. **Recommendations:** Provided strategic recommendations based on analysis.


## Data



## Methods
This projects uses exploratory data analysis to uncover trends in the data. All relevant libraries such as `pandas`, `matplotlib` and `seaborn` have been used.

## Results


## Conclusions
1. The production the production budget should be kept between a minimum of `20 million` to `70 million` dollars in order to mitigate risk and increase profits.
2. The studio should release movies in `May` ,`June`, `July`, `November` and `December` to increase total revenue.
3. The genre combinations `Comdey, Documentary, History`, `Adventure, Drama, Romance`, `Comedy, Documentary`, `Action, Crime` and `Musical` are the most successful genres and the production team should focus on creating movies around these. 

## Repository Structure
├── code
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── data_preparation.py
│   ├── visualizations.py
│   └── eda_notebook.ipynb
├── data
├── images
├── __init__.py
├── README.md
├── Animal_Shelter_Needs_Presentation.pdf
└── animal_shelter_needs_analysis.ipynb

## Repository Navigation

Commit message:

Added Data and further reading section

README.md, after:

# Microsoft Movie Insights

Author: [Ilyas Suleman Bourzat](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ilyas-bourzat-894353260/)

## Overview
This project aims to provide strategic insights to Microsoft's new movie studio through an in-depth Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA). We will be examining variuos datasets from [IMDB](https://www.imdb.com/), [Box Office Mojo](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/), [The Movie Db](https://www.themoviedb.org/) and [The Numbers](https://the-numbers.com/) - we'll be trying to identify Box Office trends and impactful movie performance metrics. This analysis will mainly be focused on what type of films are highly successful and in turn translating these findigs into actionable recommendations for Microsoft's film production strategy.

## Business Problem 
Microsoft is planning to enter the movie industry by establishing a new movie studio. However, the movie industry is highly competitive and involves significant financial risks. To ensure the success of its new venture, Microsoft needs to make data-driven decisions regarding which types of movies to produce, when to release them, and how to allocate budgets effectively. The primary business problem is to identify the factors that contribute to a movie's commercial success and use these insights to guide strategic decisions, thereby maximizing the chances of producing successful movies and achieving a strong return on investment.

## Steps
1. **Business Understanding:** Understanding the stakeholders problem and goal they want to achieve.
2. **Data Understanding:** Gathered information about the data to understand it better.
3. **Data Preparation:** Processed and cleaned the data to ensure accuracy.
4. **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA):** Conducted EDA to uncover trends and patterns.
5. **Recommendations:** Provided strategic recommendations based on analysis.


## Data
All the data used in this project has been obtained from a various credible sources and can all be found [here](https://github.com/bourzat/microsoft-movie-insights/tree/main/zippedData).


## Methods
This projects uses exploratory data analysis to uncover trends in the data. All relevant libraries such as `pandas`, `matplotlib` and `seaborn` have been used.

## Results


## Conclusions
1. The production the production budget should be kept between a minimum of `20 million` to `70 million` dollars in order to mitigate risk and increase profits.
2. The studio should release movies in `May` ,`June`, `July`, `November` and `December` to increase total revenue.
3. The genre combinations `Comdey, Documentary, History`, `Adventure, Drama, Romance`, `Comedy, Documentary`, `Action, Crime` and `Musical` are the most successful genres and the production team should focus on creating movies around these.

## Further reading
To find out more about this project, checkout the [notebook]() or [presentation]().

## Repository Structure
├── code
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── data_preparation.py
│   ├── visualizations.py
│   └── eda_notebook.ipynb
├── data
├── images
├── __init__.py
├── README.md
├── Animal_Shelter_Needs_Presentation.pdf
└── animal_shelter_needs_analysis.ipynb

## Repository Navigation
